1 Nephi Chapter 1

1:1 I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents, therefore I was
taught somewhat in all the learning of my father; and having seen many
afflictions in the course of my days, nevertheless, having been highly
favored of the Lord in all my days; yea, having had a great knowledge
of the goodness and the mysteries of God, therefore I make a record of
my proceedings in my days.

1:2 Yea, I make a record in the language of my father, which consists
of the learning of the Jews and the language of the Egyptians.

1:3 And I know that the record which I make is true; and I make it with
mine own hand; and I make it according to my knowledge.

1:4 For it came to pass in the commencement of the first year of the
reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, (my father, Lehi, having dwelt at
Jerusalem in all his days); and in that same year there came many
prophets, prophesying unto the people that they must repent, or the
great city Jerusalem must be destroyed.

1:5 Wherefore it came to pass that my father, Lehi, as he went forth
prayed unto the Lord, yea, even with all his heart, in behalf of his
people.

1:6 And it came to pass as he prayed unto the Lord, there came a pillar
of fire and dwelt upon a rock before him; and he saw and heard much;
and because of the things which he saw and heard he did quake and
tremble exceedingly.

1:7 And it came to pass that he returned to his own house at Jerusalem;
and he cast himself upon his bed, being overcome with the Spirit and
the things which he had seen.

1:8 And being thus overcome with the Spirit, he was carried away in a
vision, even that he saw the heavens open, and he thought he saw God
sitting upon his throne, surrounded with numberless concourses of
angels in the attitude of singing and praising their God.

1:9 And it came to pass that he saw One descending out of the midst of
heaven, and he beheld that his luster was above that of the sun at
noon-day.

1:10 And he also saw twelve others following him, and their brightness
did exceed that of the stars in the firmament.

1:11 And they came down and went forth upon the face of the earth; and
the first came and stood before my father, and gave unto him a book,
and bade him that he should read.

1:12 And it came to pass that as he read, he was filled with the Spirit
of the Lord.

1:13 And he read, saying: Wo, wo, unto Jerusalem, for I have seen thine
abominations! Yea, and many things did my father read concerning
Jerusalemâ€”that it should be destroyed, and the inhabitants thereof;
many should perish by the sword, and many should be carried away
captive into Babylon.

1:14 And it came to pass that when my father had read and seen many
great and marvelous things, he did exclaim many things unto the Lord;
such as: Great and marvelous are thy works, O Lord God Almighty! Thy
throne is high in the heavens, and thy power, and goodness, and mercy
are over all the inhabitants of the earth, and, because thou art
merciful, thou wilt not suffer those who come unto thee that they shall
perish!

1:15 And after this manner was the language of my father in the
praising of his God; for his soul did rejoice, and his whole heart was
filled, because of the things which he had seen, yea, which the Lord
had shown unto him.

1:16 And now I, Nephi, do not make a full account of the things which
my father hath written, for he hath written many things which he saw in
visions and in dreams; and he also hath written many things which he
prophesied and spake unto his children, of which I shall not make a
full account.

1:17 But I shall make an account of my proceedings in my days. Behold,
I make an abridgment of the record of my father, upon plates which I
have made with mine own hands; wherefore, after I have abridged the
record of my father then will I make an account of mine own life.

1:18 Therefore, I would that ye should know, that after the Lord had
shown so many marvelous things unto my father, Lehi, yea, concerning
the destruction of Jerusalem, behold he went forth among the people,
and began to prophesy and to declare unto them concerning the things
which he had both seen and heard.

1:19 And it came to pass that the Jews did mock him because of the
things which he testified of them; for he truly testified of their
wickedness and their abominations; and he testified that the things
which he saw and heard, and also the things which he read in the book,
manifested plainly of the coming of the Messiah, and also the
redemption of the world.

1:20 And when the Jews heard these things they were angry with him;
yea, even as with the prophets of old, whom they had cast out, and
stoned, and slain; and they also sought his life, that they might take
it away. But behold, I, Nephi, will show unto you that the tender
mercies of the Lord are over all those whom he hath chosen, because of
their faith, to make them mighty even unto the power of deliverance.

1 Nephi Chapter 2

2:1 For behold, it came to pass that the Lord spake unto my father,
yea, even in a dream, and said unto him: Blessed art thou Lehi, because
of the things which thou hast done; and because thou hast been faithful
and declared unto this people the things which I commanded thee,
behold, they seek to take away thy life.

2:2 And it came to pass that the Lord commanded my father, even in a
dream, that he should take his family and depart into the wilderness.

2:3 And it came to pass that he was obedient unto the word of the Lord,
wherefore he did as the Lord commanded him.

2:4 And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness. And he
left his house, and the land of his inheritance, and his gold, and his
silver, and his precious things, and took nothing with him, save it
were his family, and provisions, and tents, and departed into the
wilderness.

2:5 And he came down by the borders near the shore of the Red Sea; and
he traveled in the wilderness in the borders which are nearer the Red
Sea; and he did travel in the wilderness with his family, which
consisted of my mother, Sariah, and my elder brothers, who were Laman,
Lemuel, and Sam.

2:6 And it came to pass that when he had traveled three days in the
wilderness, he pitched his tent in a valley by the side of a river of
water.

2:7 And it came to pass that he built an altar of stones, and made an
offering unto the Lord, and gave thanks unto the Lord our God.

2:8 And it came to pass that he called the name of the river, Laman,
and it emptied into the Red Sea; and the valley was in the borders near
the mouth thereof.

2:9 And when my father saw that the waters of the river emptied into
the fountain of the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman, saying: O that thou
mightest be like unto this river, continually running into the fountain
of all righteousness!

2:10 And he also spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto
this valley, firm and steadfast, and immovable in keeping the
commandments of the Lord!

2:11 Now this he spake because of the stiffneckedness of Laman and
Lemuel; for behold they did murmur in many things against their father,
because he was a visionary man, and had led them out of the land of
Jerusalem, to leave the land of their inheritance, and their gold, and
their silver, and their precious things, to perish in the wilderness.
And this they said he had done because of the foolish imaginations of
his heart.

2:12 And thus Laman and Lemuel, being the eldest, did murmur against
their father. And they did murmur because they knew not the dealings of
that God who had created them. 2:13 Neither did they believe that
Jerusalem, that great city, could be destroyed according to the words
of the prophets. And they were like unto the Jews who were at
Jerusalem, who sought to take away the life of my father.

2:14 And it came to pass that my father did speak unto them in the
valley of Lemuel, with power, being filled with the Spirit, until their
frames did shake before him. And he did confound them, that they durst
not utter against him; wherefore, they did as he commanded them.

2:15 And my father dwelt in a tent.

2:16 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, being exceedingly young,
nevertheless being large in stature, and also having great desires to
know of the mysteries of God, wherefore, I did cry unto the Lord; and
behold he did visit me, and did soften my heart that I did believe all
the words which had been spoken by my father; wherefore, I did not
rebel against him like unto my brothers.

2:17 And I spake unto Sam, making known unto him the things which the
Lord had manifested unto me by his Holy Spirit. And it came to pass
that he believed in my words.

2:18 But, behold, Laman and Lemuel would not hearken unto my words; and
being grieved because of the hardness of their hearts I cried unto the
Lord for them.

2:19 And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying: Blessed
art thou, Nephi, because of thy faith, for thou hast sought me
diligently, with lowliness of heart.

2:20 And inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper,
and shall be led to a land of promise; yea, even a land which I have
prepared for you; yea, a land which is choice above all other lands.

2:21 And inasmuch as thy brethren shall rebel against thee, they shall
be cut off from the presence of the Lord.

2:22 And inasmuch as thou shalt keep my commandments, thou shalt be
made a ruler and a teacher over thy brethren.

2:23 For behold, in that day that they shall rebel against me, I will
curse them even with a sore curse, and they shall have no power over
thy seed except they shall rebel against me also.

2:24 And if it so be that they rebel against me, they shall be a
scourge unto thy seed, to stir them up in the ways of remembrance.

1 Nephi Chapter 3

3:1 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, returned from speaking with the
Lord, to the tent of my father.

3:2 And it came to pass that he spake unto me, saying: Behold I have
dreamed a dream, in the which the Lord hath commanded me that thou and
thy brethren shall return to Jerusalem.

3:3 For behold, Laban hath the record of the Jews and also a genealogy
of my forefathers, and they are engraven upon plates of brass.

3:4 Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy brothers
should go unto the house of Laban, and seek the records, and bring them
down hither into the wilderness.

3:5 And now, behold thy brothers murmur, saying it is a hard thing
which I have required of them; but behold I have not required it of
them, but it is a commandment of the Lord.

3:6 Therefore go, my son, and thou shalt be favored of the Lord,
because thou hast not murmured.

3:7 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father: I will go
and do the things which the Lord hath commanded, for I know that the
Lord giveth no commandments unto the children of men, save he shall
prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he
commandeth them.

3:8 And it came to pass that when my father had heard these words he
was exceedingly glad, for he knew that I had been blessed of the Lord.

3:9 And I, Nephi, and my brethren took our journey in the wilderness,
with our tents, to go up to the land of Jerusalem.

3:10 And it came to pass that when we had gone up to the land of
Jerusalem, I and my brethren did consult one with another.

3:11 And we cast lotsâ€”who of us should go in unto the house of Laban.
And it came to pass that the lot fell upon Laman; and Laman went in
unto the house of Laban, and he talked with him as he sat in his house.

3:12 And he desired of Laban the records which were engraven upon the
plates of brass, which contained the genealogy of my father.

3:13 And behold, it came to pass that Laban was angry, and thrust him
out from his presence; and he would not that he should have the
records. Wherefore, he said unto him: Behold thou art a robber, and I
will slay thee.

3:14 But Laman fled out of his presence, and told the things which
Laban had done, unto us. And we began to be exceedingly sorrowful, and
my brethren were about to return unto my father in the wilderness.

3:15 But behold I said unto them that: As the Lord liveth, and as we
live, we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness until we
have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath commanded us.

3:16 Wherefore, let us be faithful in keeping the commandments of the
Lord; therefore let us go down to the land of our fatherâ€™s inheritance,
for behold he left gold and silver, and all manner of riches. And all
this he hath done because of the commandments of the Lord.

3:17 For he knew that Jerusalem must be destroyed, because of the
wickedness of the people.

3:18 For behold, they have rejected the words of the prophets.
Wherefore, if my father should dwell in the land after he hath been
commanded to flee out of the land, behold, he would also perish.
Wherefore, it must needs be that he flee out of the land.

3:19 And behold, it is wisdom in God that we should obtain these
records, that we may preserve unto our children the language of our
fathers;

3:20 And also that we may preserve unto them the words which have been
spoken by the mouth of all the holy prophets, which have been delivered
unto them by the Spirit and power of God, since the world began, even
down unto this present time.

3:21 And it came to pass that after this manner of language did I
persuade my brethren, that they might be faithful in keeping the
commandments of God.

3:22 And it came to pass that we went down to the land of our
inheritance, and we did gather together our gold, and our silver, and
our precious things.

3:23 And after we had gathered these things together, we went up again
unto the house of Laban.

3:24 And it came to pass that we went in unto Laban, and desired him
that he would give unto us the records which were engraven upon the
plates of brass, for which we would give unto him our gold, and our
silver, and all our precious things.

3:25 And it came to pass that when Laban saw our property, and that it
was exceedingly great, he did lust after it, insomuch that he thrust us
out, and sent his servants to slay us, that he might obtain our
property.

3:26 And it came to pass that we did flee before the servants of Laban,
and we were obliged to leave behind our property, and it fell into the
hands of Laban.

3:27 And it came to pass that we fled into the wilderness, and the
servants of Laban did not overtake us, and we hid ourselves in the
cavity of a rock.

3:28 And it came to pass that Laman was angry with me, and also with my
father; and also was Lemuel, for he hearkened unto the words of Laman.
Wherefore Laman and Lemuel did speak many hard words unto us, their
younger brothers, and they did smite us even with a rod.

3:29 And it came to pass as they smote us with a rod, behold, an angel
of the Lord came and stood before them, and he spake unto them, saying:
Why do ye smite your younger brother with a rod? Know ye not that the
Lord hath chosen him to be a ruler over you, and this because of your
iniquities? Behold ye shall go up to Jerusalem again, and the Lord will
deliver Laban into your hands.

3:30 And after the angel had spoken unto us, he departed.

3:31 And after the angel had departed, Laman and Lemuel again began to
murmur, saying: How is it possible that the Lord will deliver Laban
into our hands? Behold, he is a mighty man, and he can command fifty,
yea, even he can slay fifty; then why not us?

1 Nephi Chapter 4

4:1 And it came to pass that I spake unto my brethren, saying: Let us
go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faithful in keeping the
commandments of the Lord; for behold he is mightier than all the earth,
then why not mightier than Laban and his fifty, yea, or even than his
tens of thousands?

4:2 Therefore let us go up; let us be strong like unto Moses; for he
truly spake unto the waters of the Red Sea and they divided hither and
thither, and our fathers came through, out of captivity, on dry ground,
and the armies of Pharaoh did follow and were drowned in the waters of
the Red Sea.

4:3 Now behold ye know that this is true; and ye also know that an
angel hath spoken unto you; wherefore can ye doubt? Let us go up; the
Lord is able to deliver us, even as our fathers, and to destroy Laban,
even as the Egyptians.

4:4 Now when I had spoken these words, they were yet wroth, and did
still continue to murmur; nevertheless they did follow me up until we
came without the walls of Jerusalem.

4:5 And it was by night; and I caused that they should hide themselves
without the walls. And after they had hid themselves, I, Nephi, crept
into the city and went forth towards the house of Laban.

4:6 And I was led by the Spirit, not knowing beforehand the things
which I should do.

4:7 Nevertheless I went forth, and as I came near unto the house of
Laban I beheld a man, and he had fallen to the earth before me, for he
was drunken with wine.

4:8 And when I came to him I found that it was Laban.

4:9 And I beheld his sword, and I drew it forth from the sheath
thereof; and the hilt thereof was of pure gold, and the workmanship
thereof was exceedingly fine, and I saw that the blade thereof was of
the most precious steel.

4:10 And it came to pass that I was constrained by the Spirit that I
should kill Laban; but I said in my heart: Never at any time have I
shed the blood of man. And I shrunk and would that I might not slay
him.

4:11 And the Spirit said unto me again: Behold the Lord hath delivered
him into thy hands. Yea, and I also knew that he had sought to take
away mine own life; yea, and he would not hearken unto the commandments
of the Lord; and he also had taken away our property.

4:12 And it came to pass that the Spirit said unto me again: Slay him,
for the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands;

4:13 Behold the Lord slayeth the wicked to bring forth his righteous
purposes. It is better that one man should perish than that a nation
should dwindle and perish in unbelief.

4:14 And now, when I, Nephi, had heard these words, I remembered the
words of the Lord which he spake unto me in the wilderness, saying
that: Inasmuch as thy seed shall keep my commandments, they shall
prosper in the land of promise.

4:15 Yea, and I also thought that they could not keep the commandments
of the Lord according to the law of Moses, save they should have the
law.

4:16 And I also knew that the law was engraven upon the plates of
brass.

4:17 And again, I knew that the Lord had delivered Laban into my hands
for this causeâ€”that I might obtain the records according to his
commandments.

4:18 Therefore I did obey the voice of the Spirit, and took Laban by
the hair of the head, and I smote off his head with his own sword.

4:19 And after I had smitten off his head with his own sword, I took
the garments of Laban and put them upon mine own body; yea, even every
whit; and I did gird on his armor about my loins.

4:20 And after I had done this, I went forth unto the treasury of
Laban. And as I went forth towards the treasury of Laban, behold, I saw
the servant of Laban who had the keys of the treasury. And I commanded
him in the voice of Laban, that he should go with me into the treasury.

4:21 And he supposed me to be his master, Laban, for he beheld the
garments and also the sword girded about my loins.

4:22 And he spake unto me concerning the elders of the Jews, he knowing
that his master, Laban, had been out by night among them.

4:23 And I spake unto him as if it had been Laban.

4:24 And I also spake unto him that I should carry the engravings,
which were upon the plates of brass, to my elder brethren, who were
without the walls.

4:25 And I also bade him that he should follow me.

4:26 And he, supposing that I spake of the brethren of the church, and
that I was truly that Laban whom I had slain, wherefore he did follow
me.

4:27 And he spake unto me many times concerning the elders of the Jews,
as I went forth unto my brethren, who were without the walls.

4:28 And it came to pass that when Laman saw me he was exceedingly
frightened, and also Lemuel and Sam. And they fled from before my
presence; for they supposed it was Laban, and that he had slain me and
had sought to take away their lives also.

4:29 And it came to pass that I called after them, and they did hear
me; wherefore they did cease to flee from my presence.

4:30 And it came to pass that when the servant of Laban beheld my
brethren he began to tremble, and was about to flee from before me and
return to the city of Jerusalem.

4:31 And now I, Nephi, being a man large in stature, and also having
received much strength of the Lord, therefore I did seize upon the
servant of Laban, and held him, that he should not flee.

4:32 And it came to pass that I spake with him, that if he would
hearken unto my words, as the Lord liveth, and as I live, even so that
if he would hearken unto our words, we would spare his life.

4:33 And I spake unto him, even with an oath, that he need not fear;
that he should be a free man like unto us if he would go down in the
wilderness with us.

4:34 And I also spake unto him, saying: Surely the Lord hath commanded
us to do this thing; and shall we not be diligent in keeping the
commandments of the Lord? Therefore, if thou wilt go down into the
wilderness to my father thou shalt have place with us.

4:35 And it came to pass that Zoram did take courage at the words which
I spake. Now Zoram was the name of the servant; and he promised that he
would go down into the wilderness unto our father. Yea, and he also
made an oath unto us that he would tarry with us from that time forth.

4:36 Now we were desirous that he should tarry with us for this cause,
that the Jews might not know concerning our flight into the wilderness,
lest they should pursue us and destroy us.

4:37 And it came to pass that when Zoram had made an oath unto us, our
fears did cease concerning him.

4:38 And it came to pass that we took the plates of brass and the
servant of Laban, and departed into the wilderness, and journeyed unto
the tent of our father.